# irregular-moons-aei-polar-diagrams
Diagrams for visualizing the time-averaged orbital semimajor axes, eccentricities, and inclinations of the gas giants' irregular moons. These diagrams are inspired by the ["rose diagram" in Ashton et al. (2025)](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/2515-5172/adbf87). These have been uploaded on Wikipedia/Wikimedia Commons for CC-BY-4.0 public domain use.

**AI DISCLAIMER:** All code and plotting was written by me without the use of AI/LLMs, with the exception of the *MPC_convert()* and *clean_satellite_name()* functions which was generated by ChatGPT (for the sake of speeding up the coding process). These two functions that I generated with ChatGPT only serve to read satellite names and H magnitude (satellite size) data from the *[planet]_MPC_table.txt* file and convert them into a more user-friendly format.

## **HOW TO USE**
For each planet, their irregular moon diagrams are made by running all the Python code in the Jupyter Notebooks (.ipynb files). All cells must be run from top to bottom in order to successfully produce the plot. Furthermore, the code only works if *[planet]_JPL_table.txt* and *[planet]_MPC_table.txt* files are present in the same directory as the .ipynb file. The code should output a preview of the plot, alongside a high-res SVG file containing the plot in your working directory.

The data in *[planet]_JPL_table.txt* is obtained by directly copying the tables from https://ssd.jpl.nasa.gov/sats/elem/sep.html and pasting them in a .txt file. Note that JPL uses incorrect spellings for 'Megaclite' and 'Philophrosyne', so make sure to manually fix these typos after pasting into the .txt file. Also, make sure to cut out the last 3 extra columns (tilt, RA, Dec) for JPL's entry for Phoebe, otherwise this will cause an error in creating the plot.

For *[planet]_MPC_table.txt*, data was retrieved by going to https://minorplanetcenter.net/iau/NatSats/NaturalSatellites.html, select "All [planet] outer irregular satellites", scrolling all the way down to the bottom of the page, uncheck Ephemerides, check "I require Orbital Elements" and "Multi-Line Format", and then click "Get Information". You'll get a long list of osculating orbital elements for the irregular moons. Copy the contents of entire page and paste them all into *[planet]_MPC_table.txt* (if empty). The *MPC_convert()* and *clean_satellite_name()* functions in the .ipynb file will automatically read through these .txt files and retrieve the appropriate data.

### **After making the plot (cropping SVG)**
Upon making the high-res SVG plot, you may notice that there is a lot of empty white space at the top and bottom of the plot. Unfortunately this is an unavoidable outcome of having half-polar plots, so I resort to manually cropping the SVG in InkScape. I show directions and settings for cropping the SVG plot in the "crop_settings.png" image, which is posted in the main directory of the repository.
